<style>
.page__rnb .lst_rnb_item .rnb_item:first-of-type a {
    display: inline !important;
}
</style>
<h1>Detail setting</h1>

**Notification > Notification Hub > Console User Guide > Detail setting**

Manage the settings and attachments for each message channel, which may take approximately a few minutes to reflect after setup.

## SMS

### International SMS Send Settings
* Make sure to check [[International SMS Service Policy]](./preconditions/preconditions-international-sms) before using the international SMS delivery feature.
* If you do not want to use the international SMS delivery feature, set **Disable**. If it is set to **enable**, an incident may occur due to international SMS volume pumping and additional charges may be incurred.
* You can set a minimum of 1 to a maximum of 10,000 international SMS delivery monthly. If you need to deliver more than 10,000, contact [[Customer Center]](https://www.nhncloud.com/kr/support/inquiry).
* Manage countries allowed to send
    * For initial use, only the specified major countries will be allowed to deliver. Click **Countries Allowed to deliver** box to select the countries to deliver.
* Notification of Monthly Delivery Count and Threshold
    * Default of ** Monthly Delivery Count ** is 1,000 per month and can be applied up to 10,000.
    * **Monthly Delivery Count ** is a secondary feature, and detection of thresholds may not be reflected in real time. NHN Cloud is not responsible for some errors in the secondary feature.
    * If set **International SMS Delivery** to **Enable**, notification mail will be sent to all project members upon reaching 70% and 100% of the value set to ** Monthly Delivery Count **.

> [Caution]
We're seeing an increase in abuse cases for international SMS globally.
We recommend that you set the monthly limit and the country of origin only as much as necessary.
NHN Cloud is not responsible for any international SMS sent through abusing.


### Message Settings

#### Set time to block message delivery in duplication
* You can set the same message so it is not sent during the set time.
* When the duplicate delivery setting is blocked, delivery is processed as failure for same requests during specified period (unit:minute).
* The maximum available block time is 1 hour.
* Criteria for deciding duplicate messages are as follows.
    * Message type (SMS/LMS/MMS/AUTH), sender number, receiving number, title, body, attachment

#### Alternative Characters Settings
* If the body/header of the delivery request contains non-deliverable characters that are not included in the EUC-KR character set, you can set it to convert to deliverable characters.
    * Typically, emoji characters are not included in the EUC-KR character set.
* You can select question marks '?' and 'spaces' as alternative characters.
* If you enable Alternate Character Settings, undeliverable characters are converted and displayed as the alternative characters that you set.

### Ad Message Settings
#### Set time to restrict to deliver Ad Message
* You can limit the sending time of advertising messages.
* Ad Message will not be sent during the set restricted Ad Message delivery time.
    * Start Time for Ad Delivery Restriction: 18:00~21:00
    * End Time for Ad Delivery Restriction: 08:00~12:00
* You can set how undelivered messages are handled.
    * Handle Failure
    * Resend after time restriction release
* The time limit setting for sending advertising messages in SMS and RCS requires individual settings.

## FriendTalk

### Message Settings

#### Issuance Business Form Keys

Issue a key to send a business form message (event such as reservation, questionnaire, application, etc.) from FriendTalk.

* Business form key values can be issued.
* You can add a business form button when you send a Friendtalk. If you add a business form button, you must enter the value of the business form key.
* Select the sender profile, enter the business form ID generated by Kakao Business, and click **Issue** to issue the business form key.

## RCS

### Ad Message Settings
#### Set time to restrict to deliver Ad Message
* You can limit the sending time of advertising messages.
* Ad Message will not be sent during the set restricted Ad Message delivery time.
    * Start Time for Ad Delivery Restriction: 18:00~21:00
    * End Time for Ad Delivery Restriction: 08:00~12:00
* You can set how undelivered messages are handled.
    * Handle Failure
* The time limit setting for sending advertising messages in SMS and RCS requires individual settings.

## Push

### Token Settings
#### Set token expiry period
* Deletes tokens that have not requested registration for a set period of time from the address book.
* It is extremely unlikely that messages will be received on tokens that have been disabled for an extended period of time.
    * Reason why a deactivation token occurs
        * The case where the App has actually been deleted, but tokens remain
        * The case where the App is disabled on device and messages have not been received, but tokens remain
        * The case where the App has registered a new token, but the existing token remains
* Default setting is 12 months.
* Disabled tokens can be excluded from the delivery to save shipping charges.
* You can increase the accuracy of delivery and receiving rates by clearing deactivated tokens.

#### Set App Type
* Manage tokens according to the type of linked app.
* Multiple tokens
    * It is default setting. Multiple tokens can be registered under a single receiver alias.
    - It is an App that allows app users to use apps installed on multiple devices at the same time, and one user can have multiple tokens.
    - For example, if a user uses a mobile phone and tablet, he/she can have two tokens, and send push messages to both a mobile phone and a tablet.
* a single token
    - Users can only use the App on one device at a time. One user can only have one token.
    - For example, if a user uses a mobile phone and tablet, he/she can have one token, and send push messages to one destination: either a mobile phone and a tablet.
