<style>
.page__rnb .lst_rnb_item .rnb_item:first-of-type a {
    display: inline !important;
}
</style>
<h1>Send</h1>

**Notification > Notification Hub > Console User Guide > Send **

<span id="message"></span>

!!! danger "Precaution"
The sender information for the message channel must be registered before sending. For more information about sender information, see **Notification** > **Notification Hub** > ** Console User Guide** > **Start** > **Managing sender information**.


<span id="send-flow-message"></span>

## Send Flow Messages

You must have a registered flow to send a flow.


1. Select a flow.
2. Set up receivers. You can set up receivers by entering directly, selecting from the address book, and uploading files.
    * For Entering Directly or selecting from the address book, enter the template substitutes together when setting up the receiver.
    * For file uploads, you must enter receiver information and template substitutes in the file.
    * Setting up receivers will be covered in more detail below.
3. Set the statistics key.
4. Set when to send, if it is a scheduled delivery, set the date and time of delivery.
    * The time of scheduled delivery can be set up to 30 days from the time of delivery.
5. Click **Send** to send the message.

Use the **Copy Input (JSON)** button to copy your configuration as a JSON string.


## Send individual message channels

1. Select whether to use a template, and if you are using a template, select a template.
    * For AlimTalk, select an outgoing profile and select a template registered in the outgoing profile.
2. Set up receivers. You can set up receivers by entering directly, selecting from the address book, and uploading files.
    * For Entering Directly or selecting from the address book, enter the template substitutes together when setting up the receiver.
    * For file uploads, you must enter receiver information and template substituents in the file.
    * Setting up receivers will be covered in more detail below.
3. If you are not using a template, enter a message title and content.
    * The title and content for each message channel will be covered in more detail below.
4. Set when to send, if it is a scheduled delivery, set the date and time of delivery.
    * The time of scheduled delivery can be set up to 30 days from the time of delivery.
5. Click **Send** to send the message.

Use the **Copy Input (JSON)** button to copy your configuration as a JSON string.

### How to Set Up receivers

#### Select receivers from direct receiver input and address book

* Flow sending can only be sent when all the contact information for the message channel set in the flow is filled.
* In flow sending, Direct Input enters all the receiver's contacts for the message channel set in the flow.
* In flow sending, Select receivers from the Address Book can only be selected by receivers with all the receivers' contacts for the message channel set in the flow.
* If you are sending individual message channels, enter the corresponding contact for the message channel.
* The push token enters the push type and the token generated by the device.

#### Upload File

* Download the template for the receiver contact list file.
* The row represents the receiver, and the column is the receiver's contact.
* The push token column is a JSON object consisting of a contact type and a token. Up to 6 entries are allowed per receiver.


The template structure of the receiver contact list file is as follows.

| contactPhoneNumber | contactEmailAddress | contactTokenJson1..6 | 
| - | - | - | 
| receiver mobile number | receiver email address | {"contactType": "contacts_type", "contact": "push_token" } |

### How to write a message title and content

#### SMS
* Select sender number, purpose of delivery. If purpose of delivery is for advertising, select 080 Unsubscription number.
* Select the type of delivery. The types of delivery are SMS (short), LMS (long), and MMS (long with media).
* The character set that can be entered in common for SMS, LMS, and MMS is EUC-KR.
    * [Wikipedia and EUC-KR Shortcut](https://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/EUC-KR)
* SMS is up to 90 bytes, and you can enter up to 45 Korean characters and 90 English characters.
* LMS and MMS are up to 2,000 bytes, and you can enter up to 1,000 Korean characters and 2,000 English characters.
* MMS allows attaching images.
* If sending text fails due to blocking the sender number, check out our 'Stolen Number Text Blocking Service'.
    * [Stolen Number Text Blocking Service guide shortcut](./preconditions/preconditions-sms#fraud-number)
* If the delivery result is successful, but the text is not received, check Mobile Carrier Spam Blocking Service.
    * [ Mobile Carrier Spam Blocking Service shortcuts](./preconditions/preconditions-sms#spam-number)
* SMS messages for verification must include verification messages.
      * Verification message: auth, password, verif, にんしょう, 認証, 비밀번호, 인증

##### MMS Attachable Image Specifications

* MMS maximum size: files less than 1,000\*1,000
* MMS support specification: 300KB or less per image, if the number of images is 3, a total of 800KB or less/.jpg, .jpeg files


#### International SMS
International SMS is sent in concatenated messages based on encoding and the number of characters.

* Concatenated Message is a service that makes a message look like single long text on a device like a domestic LMS to overcome the limit on the number of characters that can be sent in international SMS sending.
Concatenated Message feature is provided or limited depending on the number of body characters, encoding, and support from your overseas Telecom Service Provider.
* If Concatenated Message is not supported, it can be received by the device in several short messages.
* The header that is added to the process of creating the Concatenated Message takes up space (approximately 6 bytes) in the message body during the process of message Concatenation, reducing the number of characters that can be entered.
* It will be charged based on the number of messages connected.

| Encoding | Charge for 1 case | Charge for 2 cases | Charge for 3 cases | Charge for 4 cases | Charge for 5 cases |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| UCS-2<br>(Unicode) | 70 characters | 134 characters<br>(=67*2) | 201 characters<br>(=67*3) | 268 characters<br>(=67*4) | 335 characters<br>(=67*5) |
| GSM-7bit | 160 characters | 306 characters<br>(=153*2) | 459 characters<br>(=153*3) | 612 characters<br>(=153*4) | 765 characters<br>(=153*5) |


#### RCS

1. Select sender brand and chatroom (sender number).
2. Select the purpose of delivery. If this is for advertising, select 080 Unsubscription number.
3. Select the type of delivery. To use the RCS Biz Center template, you must select **Enable** for the template. Otherwise, only SMS, LMS, and MMS are available.
    * SMS can have up to 100 characters in Korean/English, and 1 button can be set.
    * SMS messages for verification must include verification messages.
      * Verification message: auth, password, verif, にんしょう, 認証, 비밀번호, 인증
    * SMS messages for verification cannot add a button.
    * LMS Standard type allows you to enter a title of up to 30 characters and content of up to 1,300 characters, regardless of whether it is in Korean or English, and you can set up to 3 buttons.
    * In the case of the basic and title-emphasized LMS formats, the main title can be up to 17 characters long, the body title up to 30 characters long, and the body content up to 1,300 characters long. Up to two buttons can be set.
    * For paragraph-based LMS formats, the main title can be up to 17 characters long, the body title up to 30 characters long, and the body content up to 1,300 characters long. Up to two buttons can be set within the body content.
        * Up to three body texts can be added, and the combined total of all body titles and content can be up to 1,300 characters long.
    * MMS can have up to 30 characters of titles and 1,300 characters of content for each card regardless of Korean or English, and can set up to 1 image, and 2 buttons.
        * MMS can select horizontal, vertical, and slide types as detailed settings.
        * When selecting a slide type, you can add a minimum of 3 to a maximum of 6 slides.
    * If you select a free template from RCS Biz Center template, you can enter up to 90 characters for the message.
    * RCS Biz Center template requires pre-registration from the RCS Biz Center.

##### RCS button type
* Open chat room
    * Send the message you set to the phone number you set.
    * Enter a name for the button, and then enter the phone number to send the message to.
    * Enter the message content to send.
* Copy
    * The value you set is copied.
    * Enter a name for the button, and then enter a value that will be copied when the button is clicked.
* Make a Call
    * Make a call to the phone number you set.
    * Enter a name for the button, and then enter a phone number to call when the button is clicked.
* Show map/search map
    * Show the location you set on the map app.
    * Enter a name for the button, then enter the latitude and longitude of the location.
    * Enter the location name and map URL (URL with <span>https://</span>)
* Share current location
    * The receiver sends a message to the sender with the receiver's current location.
    * Enter a name for the button.
* Link URLs
    * Connect to a web link.
    * Enter a name for the button, and then enter a link to open when the button is clicked.
    * Must enter 'http://', 'https://'를 when entering a link.
* Register an event
    * Register the event in the receiver's calendar app.
    * Enter a name for the button and select a start and end date for the schedule.
    * Enter the schedule title and schedule content.


#### AlimTalk

* Select the outgoing profile and the template registered in the outgoing profile.
* AlimTalk is only available for sending templates, so you do not need to enter the contents.

#### Email

1. Select the purpose of delivery.
    * If you choose the purpose of sending as an advertisement, additional input is required.
        * "(Advertising)" phrase must be included at the beginning of title.
        * You must display sender's name, email address, phone number, and address in the body.
        * Unsubscription link must be entered in Korean/English form and technical measures must be taken to decline receipt.
        * When sending advertising email, it will not send to users who are registered as Unsubscribed.
        * When you select the purpose of sending as an advertisement, a notification pop-up will be displayed and description about unsubscription will be set.
2. Enter the sender address. Once written in name format, you can enter the sender's name and mail address.
    * When you send it in the form of "Sender Name <Sender Mail>, it will appear to recipient in the form of sender name and email address.
3. Attach the files by uploading it yourself or selecting the registered file.
    * Up to 10 attachments can be uploaded, and only 30MB or less files can be uploaded.
    * Total size of attachments cannot exceed 30MB.
    * You can attach up to 30MB, but it is recommended to attach it within 10MB because it may be rejected due to `exceeding the limit` or may result in a higher spam rating depending on the attachment restriction policy of incoming email system (gmail.com, naver.com, etc.).


##### Precautions when sending advertising mail

When sending commercial advertising mail or business promotion mail under the Information and Communication Network Act, the following must be complied. ([Check the contents of the Korea Internet Promotion Agency](https://spam.kisa.or.kr/spam/cm/cntnts/cntntsView.do?mi=1061&cntntsId=1086)) <br>


1. Advertising mail should only be sent to receivers who have explicitly agreed to receive it. In the event of a dispute due to a violation of this, the responsibility lies with the Advertising Mail Sender.
2. "(Advertising)" phrase must be included at the beginning of title.
3. Mail body must display sender information, including sender's name, email address, phone number and address.
4. Mail body should specify a notice that receivers can easily unsubscribe or withdraw their consent to receive.
5. Technical measures should be taken to make it easier for the receivers to choose whether to unsubscribe or withdraw their consent by pressing [Unsubscription] within the body and in this case, the notice and technical measures should be specified in Korean and English.

```
If you do not want to receive it, please click a [Unsubscription].
If you do not want to receive it, please click a [Unsubscription].
```

NHN Cloud provides the following technical measures for 'advertising mail' to comply with the Information and Communication Network Act.

- Insert phrase (advertising) into the title.
- It provides unsubscribe function in Korean and English so that the receiver can choose to decline to receive.
- Advertising email will not send to users who are registered as Unsubscribe.

##### Key providing as Unsubscription link

| Key | phrase | Use Example | 
|-------------------------| - |-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------| 
| BLOCK_RECEIVER_LINK | [ Unsubscription ](#) | If you do not want to receive click ##BLOCK_RECEIVER_LINK##. | 
| EN_BLOCK_RECEIVER_LINK | [Unsubscription](#) | If you no longer wish to receive these emails, please click the ##EN_BLOCK_RECEIVER_LINK##. | 
| JA_BLOCK_RECEIVER_LINK | [受信拒否](#) | メールの受信を希望しない場合、##JA_BLOCK_RECEIVER_LINK##をクリックしてください。 | 
| BLOCK_RECEIVER_LINK_URL | - | If you no longer wish to receive these emails, please `<a href='##BLOCK_RECEIVER_LINK_URL##' target='_blank'>click here</a>`. |


### Push

1. Select the purpose of delivery.
2. If you choose the purpose of sending as an advertisement, additional input is required.
    * In Sender Contact, enter your representative number.
    * In the Unsubscription Withdrawal Guide, enter how you can reject push messages from the app.
        * Example: Unsubscription: Settings > Notification Settings
3. Select the input type; if you select JSON as the input type, the entire content must be entered in JSON format.
4. Select whether to use HTML style.
    * HTML style allows you to express HTML on your Android device.
    * iPhone (iOS) does not support HTML style.
    * When sending messages using HTML style, Android and iPhone messages must be written and sent separately.
5. You can add the push message in various forms by adding buttons, images, etc. 
    * SDK application to the app is required to normally display the button and image of the push message received on the device.
        * [Android SDK Shortcut](https://docs.nhncloud.com/ko/nhncloud/ko/nhncloud-sdk/push-android/)
        * [iOS SDK Shortcut](https://docs.nhncloud.com/ko/nhncloud/ko/nhncloud-sdk/push-ios/)


#### Button

|Name| Content                                                               |
|---|------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Name | The name of button                                                           |
| Type | Type of button, Reply, Open App (OPEN_APP), Open URL (OPEN_URL), Close (DISMISS) |
| Transfer button name | If the button type is a response button, you can set the transfer button name on iOS.                       |
| Link | Link to move or run when a button is pressed. This is the case if the button type is URL open.                |
| Hint | Description about buttons.                                                    |

#### Type of buttons
- Response
    - Run the Direct Reply feature.
    - When the user touches the send button, the action listener delivers the user input text.
- Open App
    - Run App
    - The full text of the message is delivered through action listener. You can enter information within the message to implement features such as navigating to specific pages.
- Open URL
    - Run the URL (https://...) or Scheme (scheme://...) entered in the link entry.
    - When you enter a URL, the web browser runs and loads the URL.
    - If you enter a scheme, run the scheme defined in the app.
- Close
    - Close the corresponding notification.

#### Media

|Name| Content                                                |
|---|---------------------------------------------------|
| Location | Where the media is located, 'REMOTE' or 'LOCAL'                   |
| Address | It can be the address where the media is located, URL, URI, etc.                |
| Type | You can select images, GIFs, videos, and sounds. (Android is image only) |
| Extension | media extensions                                          | Extensions of media such as .png, .avi, etc. |
| Unfold | Media unfold feature, only on Android.                      |

#### Specify media files
- External
    - Download and use the media file corresponding to the URL you entered.
    - Android
        - To use HTTP on Android Pie and higher, <a href="http://docs.toast.com/ko/TOAST/ko/toast-sdk/push-android/#android-p">network-security-config</a> must be set.
    - iOS
        - To use HTTP with iOS 9 and later, you must set app transport security (ATS) within the Info.plist file.
        - You must enter extension information for the actual media file in the extension entry (e.g., jpg, png, mp4, wav, ...)
- Internal
    - Use the resources contained within the app.
    - Android
        - The file must be pre-added to 'res > drawable'.
        - Because it is accessed through a resource identifier, when writing a message, enter a file name except for the extension in 'richMessage.media.source'.
        - Android cannot use the same file name even if the extensions are different because the file name is used as an identifier for the resource.
The supported image formats are png, jpg, and gif. (Currently, media in video and audio formats are not supported.)
    - iOS
        - Resources must be pre-added to <a href="http://docs.toast.com/ko/TOAST/ko/toast-sdk/push-ios/#notification-service-extension">Notification Service Extension</a> project that generates rich messages.
        - In XCode, add a file or directory to the 'NotificationServiceExtension' project.
        - Verify that the file has been added successfully in 'Build Phases > TARGETS'.
        - It is accessed through bundle resources and requires a full filename, including the extension.
        - Type the file name you added to 'richMessage.media.source' when writing message.

#### Media Type
- Image

| | Android | iOS | 
| - | - | - | 
| format of support | JPEG, PNG, GIF | JPEG, PNG, GIF | 
| GIF Animation | Unsupported | Supported | 
| File Size | Unlimited | 10MB | 
| Recommendation | 2:1 ratio vertical image recommended<br>Small: 512x256<br>Medium: 1024x512<br>Large: 2048x1024 | vertical image recommended<br>Maximum size: 1038x1038 |

- Video

| | Android | iOS | 
| - | - | - | 
| format of support | Unsupported | MPEG, MPEG3Video, MPEG4, AVIMovie | 
| File size | Unsupported | 50MB |

- Sound

| | Android | iOS | 
| - | - | - | 
| format of support | Unsupported | WaveAudio, MP3, MPEG4Audio | 
| File size | Unsupported | 5MB |

#### Big icon
This feature is only available on Android. Specify a large icon for the notification. The file assignment method is the same as the media file assignment method.

|Name| Content                                 |
|---|------------------------------------|
| Location | Where it is located, 'REMOTE' or 'LOCAL'         |
| Address | It can be the address where the image is located, URL, URI, etc. |

#### Groups
This feature is only available on Android. Set up a group for notifications and collect and express notifications with the same group key.

|Name| Content        |
|---|-----------|
| Key | Group Key     |
| Description | Description of the group |

#### Notification sound
| | Android | iOS | 
| - | - | - | 
| format of support | MP3, PCM/WAVE, Vorbis | Linear PCM, MP4(IMA/ADPCM), μ-law, aLaw | 
| extension | .mp3, .wav, .ogg | .aiff, .wav, .caf | 
| Playtime | Unlimited | 30 Seconds |

- Only resources contained within the app can be specified. (External URL not available)
- Android
    - Resources must be added in advance to the 'res > raw' folder.
    - The file extension is ignored because it is accessed through the resource identifier.
    - It only works below Android Oreo.
- iOS
    - Resources must be added in advance as bundled resources for app projects.
    - It is accessed through bundle resources and requires a full filename, including the extension.